# Introduction

We often receive material that is related to collections that are already here. Instead of making a new collection, we add this material to the existing collection, hence the name Addition. When faced with an addition, the first decision that must be made is whether to incorporate the addition into the arrangement of the original deposit or to add the additional materials at the end of the original deposit’s arrangement in what we call a separately maintained addition.  

In some cases, it may be very easy to drop materials into the appropriate places in the original deposit without changing the arrangement or description. However, before integrating materials consider how the collection has already been used. Some collections are heavily used by repeat researchers who may find confusing the intermingling of new material with old. Also, for some collections, it might make sense to highlight new material, even if it is just one letter. It is a good idea to consult with your supervising archivist for help with the decision to interfile or to create a separate addition. If you do interfile, be sure to put a note in the control file indicating what, where, and when new material was interfiled.  

More frequently, you will opt for creating separately maintained additions; these can come in many styles. If the materials in the addition mimic the materials in the original deposit you can use the same arrangement in your addition. The materials do not have to correspond exactly. For example, in your original deposit, you might have Series 1. Correspondence, Series 2. Diaries, and Series 3. Pictures. It is fine for your addition to have a diaries series; a pictures series; and a new series of audio-visual materials. Of course, materials in the addition may not have anything to do with the original deposit. In that case, it is completely fine to devise a new arrangement for them. 

See the pages for Drop-ins, Integrated Additions, and Separately Maintained Additions in this section. 
