# A/V

With A/V formats, it’s useful to know that researchers will not be playing back the original, archival copies.  Unless there is a special reason the researcher must lay eyes on the original physical item, they will never have it served up to them.  (And even if they do see it, it must be approved by library staff, and they will not be playing it.)  (By the way, I have never heard of this happening before, but I am supposing it could happen under very specific circumstances.)  Instead, we make use copies from the original that the researcher can use in the research room.  This reduces the wear and tear on the original and helps preserve it.  So, since originals are virtually never paged, they do not get entered into the locations database.  Instead, they are entered into the non-circulating spreadsheet.  That way, library staff can find the items when it’s time to make use copies, and originals are far less likely to be accidentally served to researchers. 

The unique identifier for A/V items – similar to photographs and oversize folders – goes by this format:  X-#####/N, where X is the format-specific prefix, ##### is the collection number, and N is the number assigned to that individual item.  For example, if I had audiocassette 15 in collection #22345, its unique ID would be C-22345/15. 

It’s good to label both the item itself and the case it’s being stored in with the same unique ID.  This is so they can be matched up later if they ever get separated.  It can be important to be able to do this, because the case may have important information about the item that isn’t on the item itself, so it’s good practice to do this with all of the items.  Sometimes, you simply can’t label the item itself with a unique ID.  Don’t worry about that, it’s just the nature of some formats. 

When you are labeling the A/V item with a unique ID, try to be consistent about where on the case you put it.  It’s mostly a matter of convenience, but whoever is trying to find the item will cope if it’s not perfectly consistent.  It’s generally a good idea to put the unique ID on the spine, to make it easier to find on the shelf.  However, if there is no room, like the case is too thin or there is writing you shouldn’t cover, it’s better to put it on one of the other sides of the case, near the usual spine area if possible.  When it comes down to it, as long as it’s somewhere on the case, that’s a good thing.  I have found it’s difficult to be consistent when placing the unique ID on audiocassettes themselves, because the creators often used all different brands with different labels, and wrote differing levels of information and notes on the tapes, so I just do my best to squeeze it in somewhere. 

You can either write the unique ID directly on the case or item if there is a surface that can be written on, or create a label to stick on.  In the case of an audiocassette case, you can place a label on the plastic case, even if it blocks text that is on the paper “wrap-around" label inside, because it can be removed and read that way.  However, if there is a sticker along the spine of the case that has informational text on it, do not cover it with a label.  You can either hand-write on the labels or use a template in a word processor and print them.  Sometimes, I will use an Xacto knife to cut labels in half length-wise because it helps to have a narrower label in those cases. 

***

It is also worth mentioning, when handling A/V, be careful not to touch the parts of the item that hold the actual data, like the tape in an audiocassette or video cassette or a film reel, so you don’t damage the playback.  When in doubt, ask the archivist in charge. 

When you’re taking inventory of A/V items, capture information that has been written on the cases or items so it can be added to the finding aid.  This can help researchers determine whether or not they’d like a use copy made. 

